Iox #911 design document dynamic size types (#912)
eclipse-iceoryx/iceoryx: doc/design/drafts/dynamic_size_types.md

like a `SharedMemoryAllocator`.

## Memory Layout

In the following section we would like to send the structure 

```cpp
struct MyData {
  int         value;
  vector<int> image;
  string      text;
};
```

and observe how this is stored currently in the shared memory of iceoryx and
compare it to the suggested solution.

An iceoryx containers memory structure looks mostly like this:
```
vector/string {
  mgmt; // contains internal variables to handle the logic and later the
        // suggested allocator

  data; // contains the user data which is stored in the container
}
```

### Static Layout

When we require a sample with our publisher and write `MyData` we gain have a
chunk where all the contents are stored inside one chunk. Hereby is the
Memory Manager the class which handles the distribution of shared memory chunks.
To support different sizes the Memory Manager uses bucket allocators with
preconfigured bucket sizes called Memory Pool.

```
+--------------------- Memory Manager -------------------+
|  MemPool with chunk size = 1000                        |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |

> |  |  data          |                |                |  |

Reviewer: I think this should be ``value``.

|  |  image::mgmt   |                |                |  |
|  |  image::data   |                |                |  |
|  |  text::mgmt    |                |                |  |
|  |  text::data    |                |                |  |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |
|                                                        |
|  MemPool with chunk size = 100                         |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Layout With Dynamic Sized Types

With dynamic sized types we move the data part outside of the container and
add an allocator to the container which allows the container to acquire
memory for their data part. When we assume that `MyData::image` and
`MyData::text` require 100 bytes for their data part the memory layout could

> look like this.

Reviewer: What happens when there is not enough memory for the data Part?

Author: I adjusted the allocator interface so that it provides the memory packed inside an expected with a custom allocator error type. This is error is forwarded via `reserve` when it fails.

|  |  text::mgmt    |                |                |  |
|  +-------------+--+----------------+----------------+  |
|                |                                       |
|                +-------------------+-----------+       |
|  MemPool with chunk size = 100     |           |       |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-+-+---+---+-+-+---+ |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |img|   |   |txt|   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |dat|   |   |dat|   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
```

This does not require any adaptions on the subscriber side since the subscriber
already mapped this memory region which is handled by the memory manager into 
its local process.

## Design Allocator

The allocator should be designed in a manner so that it can be used inside the
shared memory in an IPC context. This means the design has to consider that
vtables, virtual and inheritance are not allowed as well as function pointers
or the use of `cxx::function` or `cxx::function_ref`.

> Therefore this allocator concept is less flexibel and more complex as it would

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore this allocator concept is less flexible and more complex as it would
```

       |  - vector& operator=(const vector<T> &)     |
       |  - vector& operator=(vector<T> &&)          |
       |                                             |
       |                                             |
       |  // same API as current cxx::vector         |
       |                                             |
       |  # uint8_t m_data[Capacity]                 |
       |  # RangeAllocator m_allocator               |
       +---------------------------------------------+
```
All non stack based version of cxx containers will not have constructors similar
to the STL. The only provided constructor has one argument which specifies the
type of allocator one would like to use for that container. If no argument is
provided the heap allocator will be used by default.

The constructors and operations defined in (#1) are added to support implicit
conversion from the generic `cxx::vector` which is required to the stack version
of a vector. It makes the following operations possible
```cpp
void f(const vector<int, 20> &a) {}

vector<int> v1;
vector<int, 20> v2;

// this works thanks to implicit conversions from vector<int>
f(v1);

> v2 = v1;

Reviewer: What happens when the size of `v1` is greater than 20?

Author: It fails, a detailed explanation was added to the document.

```

Since every stack based vector is a child of the more generic vector we can with
the help of (#1) also assign and use stack based vectors of different sizes
to each other or use them in functions. This allows us to write code like this:
```cpp
void f(const vector<int, 20> &a) {}

vector<int, 10> v1;
vector<int, 20> v2;

// this works since vector<int, 10> is also a vector<int> and can be converted
v2 = v1;
v1 = v2; // this can fail when v1 capacity is smaller then v2.size, previously 
         // it was only possible when v1.capacity < v2.capacity
f(v1);
f(v2);
```

The only restriction are functions which require a stack based vector of a 
specific size as non const reference. This is usally the case when some function
would like to set the contents of a vector.
```cpp
void setVectorContents(vector<int, 20> &a) {}

vector<int, 10> v1;
vector<int> v2;

// both calls will result in a compile time warning
setVectorContents(v1);
setVectorContents(v2);
```

### Usage

```cpp
cxx::vector<int, 20> a;
a.emplace_back(123); // can be used without a preceding reserve call

cxx::vector<int> c(heapAllocator);

> c.reserve(42); // reserve required

Reviewer 2: what should happen if no reserve was called?

Author: In the case of the static vector it is not required and nothing will happen. For all other vectors `cxx::Expects` is called with the expectation that reserve was called before - if not `cxx::Expects` will call `std::terminate()` but this can be configured to something else later when we have a more fine grained error handling concept.

Reviewer: Can reserve fail?

Author: The allocator returns an error via expected which is forwarded to the user when reserve fails.

|  - expected<AllocatorError> reserve(const uint64_t); |
|  - void release();                                   |
|                                                      |
|  // remaining API is unchanged                       |
+------------------------------------------------------+
                          ^
                         /|\
                          |
       +------------------+--------------------------+
       |template<T, Capacity>                        |
       |vector : public vector<Type>                 |
       |                                             |
       |  (#1)                                       |
       |  - vector(const vector<T> &)                |
       |  - vector(vector<T> &&)                     |
       |  - vector& operator=(const vector<T> &)     |
       |  - vector& operator=(vector<T> &&)          |
       |                                             |
       |                                             |
       |  // same API as current cxx::vector         |
       |                                             |
       |  # uint8_t m_data[Capacity]                 |
       |  # RangeAllocator m_allocator               |

>        +---------------------------------------------+

Author: I added this idea to the design document under open questions to keep this idea documented.

>        +---------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 3: Not sure what `payload_vector` is here, I probably missed something.

But we may also request the allocator from the publisher in a way. Then we could provide this allocator to the vector as sketched in the document, but of course we would have to be careful with the lifetime.

Of course the vector would now have a pointer to the allocator, which I think the proposal here tries to avoid.
I think 2. is very error-prone and cumbersome to use.

# Dynamic Size Support for Zero Copy Types

## Summary

There are multiple obstacles when it comes to use true zero copy with types
whose size is not known at compile time. At the moment a developer can pursue
three approaches.

1. Send via untyped publisher and provide the size at runtime to the publisher.
   But defining message types with multiple dynamic sized containers would be
   a real challenge when they should be constructed inside of this sample.

2. One can perform a worst case estimation at compile time and declare
   a type with container members which fullfil those estimations.
   This could lead to a lot of wasted memory and if the worst case estimations
   have to be adjusted all the applications which are using this type may have

>    to be adjusted as well since the capacity is part of the type.

Reviewer 3: These estimations are also often hard to come by for more complicated structures, e.g. specific trees with internal meta data nodes etc. The estimates then are very pessimistic and as stated here lead to a lot of wasted memory which cannot be avoided by this approach. Hence it is not really an option if memory is a concern.

3. Another approach is to use the heap and copy/serialize the data into a sample

>    before sending it with iceoryx. This would imply multiple copies since the

Reviewer 3: Leads to one serialization and one deserialization and is optimal *if data has to be serialized anyway*.

No copies needed if done correctly, but tota effort is effort of Omega(size of data to be sent), i.e. at least linear as a copy with more complex logic (leading to increased costs compared to copies).

   publisher has to copy the data from the container into the sample and every
   subscriber may has to deserialize/copy the data out of the iceoryx sample.

Those obstacles can be overcome when iceoryx containers like `cxx::string`,
`cxx::vector` or `cxx::{forward}list` support custom allocators which allocate
memory in a part of the shared memory which is also in the process space of the
subscriber available.

> To accomplish dynamic size types we require:

Reviewer 3: To support ...

> 1. an allocator concept which supports states for allocators

Reviewer 3: What is 1. supposed to mean?

2. have to adjust the containers like `cxx::string`, `cxx::vector` and 
   `cxx::{forward}list`
3. the publisher has to provide access to the shared memory allocator via the
   sample

### Allocator Type Does Not Effect Container Type

One important restriction for the allocator concept is that the specification
of the allocator does not change the type like the STL C++ allocator concept
does. Function developers for instance do not want to restrict their functions
to shared memory allocated types which would result in some implementation
overhead. One example could be that someone analyses an image with a function
like
`void analyseImage(cxx::vector<int, SharedMemoryAllocator> & a)`. This function
can now be only used with a vector which is using the `SharedMemoryAllocator`.
One could define the allocator type as a template but this would increase the
compile time and can make it nearly impossible to write proprietary code since
templates require the implementation in the header. Furthermore, the function
developer has to be aware of the implementation detail that there is something

> like a `SharedMemoryAllocator`.

Reviewer 3: Basically the approach of https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/polymorphic_allocator but we will have additional complications due to shared memory (across processes).

## Memory Layout

In the following section we would like to send the structure 

```cpp
struct MyData {
  int         value;
  vector<int> image;
  string      text;
};
```

and observe how this is stored currently in the shared memory of iceoryx and
compare it to the suggested solution.

An iceoryx container memory structure looks mostly like this:
```
vector/string {
  mgmt; // contains internal variables to handle the logic and later the
        // suggested allocator

  data; // contains the user data which is stored in the container
}
```

### Static Layout

> When we require a sample with our publisher and write `MyData`, we acquire a

Reviewer 3: request or acquire a sample

> When we require a sample with our publisher and write `MyData` we acquire a
> chunk where all the contents are stored inside one chunk. Hereby is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we require a sample with our publisher and write `MyData`, we acquire a
chunk where all the contents are stored. Hereby is the
```

preconfigured bucket sizes called Memory Pool.

```
+--------------------- Memory Manager -------------------+
|  Memory Pool with chunk size = 1000                    |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |
|  |  value         |                |                |  |
|  |  image::mgmt   |                |                |  |
|  |  image::data   |                |                |  |
|  |  text::mgmt    |                |                |  |
|  |  text::data    |                |                |  |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |
|                                                        |
|  Memory Pool with chunk size = 100                     |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Layout With Dynamic Sized Types

With dynamic sized types we move the data part outside of the container and

> add an allocator to the container which allows the container to acquire

Reviewer 3: important: I think we actually only should add a reference/pointer to the allocator in general.

> memory for their data part. When we assume that `MyData::image` and

Reviewer: Please describe this in more detail. The data part will now be stored in separate chunks and the management part will be inside one chunk, now including (a pointer to) the allocator, right?

Author: @FerdinandSpitzschnueffler I added a more detailed description. Can you please check it out.

look like this.

```
+--------------------- Memory Manager -------------------+
|  MemPool with chunk size = 1000                        |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |
|  |  value         |                |                |  |
|  |  image::mgmt   |                |                |  |
|  |  text::mgmt    |                |                |  |
|  +-------------+--+----------------+----------------+  |
|                |                                       |
|                +-------------------+-----------+       |
|  MemPool with chunk size = 100     |           |       |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-+-+---+---+-+-+---+ |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |img|   |   |txt|   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |dat|   |   |dat|   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
```

This does not require any adaptions on the subscriber side since the subscriber
already mapped this memory region which is handled by the memory manager into 
its local process.

> ## Design Allocator

Reviewer 3: transpose

> The allocator should be designed in a manner so that it can be used inside the
> shared memory in an IPC context. This means the design has to consider that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The allocator should be designed to be used inside the
shared memory within an IPC context. This means the design has to consider that
```

vtables, virtual and inheritance are not allowed as well as function pointers
or the use of `cxx::function` or `cxx::function_ref`.

Therefore this allocator concept is less flexible and more complex as it would
be when everything would run in the same process since we have to use relative

> pointer and have to allocate everything on the stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pointers and have to allocate everything on the stack.
```

```
  +------------------------------+
  |  AllocatorError [enum class] |
  |                              |
  |     # OUT_OF_MEMORY          |
  |     # MEMORY_SIZE_TOO_LARGE  |
  +------------------------------+

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  Allocator [Concept]                                          |
  |                                                               |

>   |   - expected<relative_ptr, AllocatorError> allocate(uint64_t) |

Reviewer 3: We should not return relaive_ptr or similar. There is no need, we can return raw pointers. Only if we want to store them for IPC use we need to consider fancy pointers. This is not the responsibility of allocate.

  |   - void free(relative_ptr chunk)                             |
  |   - template<AnotherAllocator>                                |
  |     bool isMoveCompatible(const AnotherAllocator& rhs)        |
  +---+--------+--------------------------------------------------+
      |        |
      |  +-----+---------------------------------------------------------+

>       |  | RangeAllocator                                                |

Reviewer 3: Probably to early for specific allocators but sure, we want to support different specializations.

If we mention the different allocators here we should explain their purpose (HeapAllocator is also not an ideal name I think).

+--------------------------------+                                       |
                                                                         |
               +---------------------------------------------------------+-----+
               | template<AllocatorTypes...>                                   |
               | VariantAllocator                                              |
               |                                                               |
               |   - expected<relative_ptr, AllocatorError> allocate(uint64_t) |
               |   - void free(relative_ptr chunk)                             |
               |   - template<AnotherAllocator>                                |
               |     bool isMoveCompatible(const AnotherAllocator & rhs)       |
               |                                                               |
               |   # relative_ptr m_ptrToAllocator                             |
               +---------------------------------------------------------------+
```
The `Allocator` described in this diagram is similar to a C++20 concept which can

> be verified at compiletime without inheritance. The verification can be realized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be verified at compile time without inheritance. The verification can be realized
```

with a `IsAllocatorTypeTrait` in C++14.
The shared memory and IPC restrictions are forcing us to implement a
VariantAllocator which provides us type independent access to the underlying
allocator like inheritance would provide. Hereby the implementation for
`allocate`, `free` and `isMoveCompatible` is always the same and can be
implemented similar to the `cxx::variant` move and copy operations. This would
make the `VariantAllocator` easier extendable since the user just has to add
any additional allocator as type in the variadic template list. An alternative

> way of implementing this `VariantAllocator` would be with a switch statement

Reviewer 3: switch is a bad alternative and essentially variant abstracts something like this.

               void>>> : std::true_type {};

    // test all other methods
    static_assert(HasAllocateMethod<T>::value, 
              "Type is not an allocator, void* allocate(uint64_t) missing");
};
```

## Design of Zero Copy Containers

The design pursues the following goals.

1. The `cxx::vector<T, Capacity>` should not change in its API.

2. All static cxx containers are still owner of all their data. This means the
   memory which the stack allocator manages must be stored inside the cxx
   container class.

3. A function developer should not have to specify the allocator type of a
   container. This means the allocator type is independent of the container type.
   This has to work:
   ```cpp
   void myFunkyFunction(const cxx::vector<int> & bla) {}

   cxx::vector<int, 20> a;
   cxx::vector<int, 30> b;
   cxx::vector<int> c(Allocator::heap);

   myFunkyFunction(a);
   myFunkyFunction(b);
   myFunkyFunction(c);
   ```

4. All containers must be shared memory compatible, this means no vtables and
   virtual. Furthermore the usage of function pointers, `cxx::function` and
   `cxx::function_ref` is forbidden in all containers and their underlying 
   constructs.

> 5. Before using any cxx container the user as to call `reserve()` once otherwise

Reviewer 3: has to

   the container will have a default capacity of zero. It is not allowed to
   call `reserve()` multiple times since this could violate the zero copy
   guarantee.
   Stack based containers do not require a `reserve()` call beforehand but
   should provide this call as well for compatibility reasons.

>    * It is not possible to provide solely the capacity (`reserve` parameter) via

Reviewer 3: I think for this it is also important what kind of template types we support for say `vector`.

     the constructor of the container since frameworks like ROS2 cannot forward
     such arguments when for instance `loan` was called. But it is possible to
     provide it as an alternative.

6. The allocator type should not change the underlying container type, e.g. the

>    allocator should not provided as template argument, otherwise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   allocator should not be provided as template argument, otherwise
```

   it becomes impossible to reuse defined structures in a non shared memory
   context. This is for instance required when a user would like to store some
   received data locally in a cache for later use.

7. The allocator should not be part of copy and move-assignment operations.
   The container should behave as closely as possible to an STL container with
   custom allocator.
   ```cpp
   cxx::vector a(HeapAllocator);
   cxx::vector b(SharedMemoryAllocator);
   cxx::vector c(AnotherAllocator);
   cxx::vector d(HeapAllocator);

>    a = b; // the content is copied from shared memory into the heap

Reviewer 3: I think the behavior needs to be clarified more here. I think `a` will/should deallocate its current memory (or extend it), allocate more memory if needed and then copy the data from b to this memory.

However, in general this operation needs to know something about the source memory here (and it will, since it has access to the allocator of the source `b`).

TLDR: the actual semantics need more detail here I think.

   a = std::move(c); // a fake move is performed and the data is again copied
                     // into the heap
   a = std::move(d); // real move is performed
   ```
   After a copy- or move assignment operation the allocator which was provided
   in the constructor will not change.

   When the copy- or move-constructor is used the allocator of the origin shall
   be used in the newly created container.

   * Real copy- and move operations could have some unwanted side effects. Lets
     assume one would like to copy/move a shared memory located vector into a local

>      cache. If the allocator would change the container has to allocate another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     cache. If the allocator would change, the container has to allocate another
```

>      cache. If the allocator would change, the container has to allocate another

Reviewer 3: Can/should the allocator of an individual vector ever change once constructed? What would be the semantics?

     chunk inside the shared memory for the data copy. This would use up a lot
     of shared memory for local copies but the purpose of the shared memory is
     to store data for zero copy communication.
   * It would make it impossible for users to define local allocators in members
     and use the compiler generated copy/move assignment operator.
     ```cpp
     struct MyData {
       cxx::vector<int> value;
     };

     dataOnSharedMemory = subscriber->take();
     MyData cache{.value = cxx:vector<int>(HeapAllocator)};
     cache = dataOnSharedMemory; // would suddenly allocate shared memory
     ```

> The draft we provide here is using the `cxx::vector` but the techniques

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided draft uses the `cxx::vector` but the techniques
```

|  - void release();                                   |
|                                                      |
|  // remaining API is unchanged                       |
+------------------------------------------------------+
                          ^
                         /|\
                          |
       +------------------+--------------------------+
       |template<T, Capacity>                        |
       |vector : public vector<Type>                 |
       |                                             |
       |  (#1)                                       |
       |  - vector(const vector<T> &)                |
       |  - vector(vector<T> &&)                     |
       |  - vector& operator=(const vector<T> &)     |
       |  - vector& operator=(vector<T> &&)          |
       |                                             |
       |                                             |
       |  // same API as current cxx::vector         |
       |                                             |
       |  # uint8_t m_data[Capacity]                 |
       |  # RangeAllocator m_allocator               |
       +---------------------------------------------+
```

> All non stack based version of cxx containers will not have constructors similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All non stack based versions of cxx containers will not have constructors similar
```

to the STL. The only provided constructor has one argument which specifies the
type of allocator one would like to use for that container. The default constructor

> shall construct a vector which has a capacity of 0.

Reviewer: Can you please elaborate? Why can't we have typical c'tors with the allocator as last parameter with a default value, e.g. the heap allocator? This would be more user friendly.

conversion from the generic `cxx::vector`. It makes the following operations possible
```cpp
void f(const vector<int, 20> &a) {}

vector<int> v1;
vector<int, 20> v2;

// this works thanks to implicit conversions from vector<int>
f(v1);
v2 = v1;
```
We can use `cxx::Expects` to ensure that the size of `v1` is smaller or equal
than the capacity `v2`. Later we can overload the copy operation with a method
like `perform_copy` which returns the boolean `true` when the copy operation
was successful and `false` when the size of `v1` exceeded the capacity of `v2`.

Since every stack based vector is a child of the more generic vector we can, with
the help of (#1), also assign and use stack based vectors of different sizes
to each other or use them in functions. This allows us to write code like this:
```cpp
void f(const vector<int, 20> &a) {}

vector<int, 10> v1;
vector<int, 20> v2;

// this works since vector<int, 10> is also a vector<int> and can be converted
v2 = v1;
v1 = v2; // this can fail when v1 capacity is smaller then v2.size, previously 
         // it was only possible when v1.capacity < v2.capacity
f(v1);
f(v2);
```

> The only restriction are functions which require a stack based vector of a 
> specific size as non const reference. This is usally the case when some function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only limitation is functions which require a stack based vector of a 
specific size as non const reference. This is usally the case when some function
```

would like to set the contents of a vector.
```cpp
void setVectorContents(vector<int, 20> &a) {}

vector<int, 10> v1;
vector<int> v2;

// both calls will result in a compile time warning
setVectorContents(v1);
setVectorContents(v2);
```

### Usage

```cpp
cxx::vector<int, 20> a;
a.emplace_back(123); // can be used without a preceding reserve call

cxx::vector<int> c(heapAllocator);
// reserve required
c.reserve(42)
     .and_then([&]{ c.emplace_back(891); })
     .or_else([](auto & error){ /* error handling */});

auto sample = publisher.loan();
if ( sample->sharedMemoryVector.reserve(123).has_error() {
   /* error handling */
   return;
}
sample->sharedMemoryVector.emplace_back(someValue);
```

Copy and move operations should be possible without the developer knowing
what kind of underlying allocator is used. Additionally, it should be as efficient

> as possible. That means the move operation should be a real move operation

Reviewer 3: We could also define that move only works if source and destination allocator are the same (and maybe other conditions hold), otherwise we could always fall back to a copy.

Another approach is simply that the destiantion takes over the memory and allocator of the source and discards its own. If the allocator is not owned by the vector (but just a fancy pointer to it), this should be well defined and cheap, at least for vector.

The source of the move will not need allocator nor data (it should not be accessed anymore, but we can make it move aware for added safety at the cost of some runtime checks whether the allocator is valid/set).

// will call release on b and acquires a new fitting chunk with reserve to store
// the contents of a via copy
b = std::move(a); 

// isMoveCompatible() will return true therefore only the internal data pointer
// will be copied
c =  std::move(b);

// isMoveCompatible() will return false
// will call release on a and acquires a new memory chunk, if the compile time
// capacity argument is insufficient it will fail
a = std::move(b);
```
Move can again fail when for instance the size of `c` exceeds the capacity of
`a`. Here we can again provide two operations, the default C++ approach which
could lead to a call to `cxx::Ensures` and then `std::terminate` if the capacity
is insufficient. Additionally, we could introduce a method like `perform_move`
which returns a boolean signaling if it was successful.

## STL containers and zero copy IPC communication

Most dynamic sized STL containers can be used in combination of a custom
allocator. The internal structure of those containers looks similar to the
structure of their `cxx` pendants
```cpp
template<typename T>
class vector {
  //...
  T * memoryStorageOfVectorElements;
};
```

> The pointer hereby is an absolut pointer pointing to a piece of memory in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pointer hereby is an absolute pointer pointing to a piece of memory in the
```

preconfigured bucket sizes called Memory Pool.

```
+--------------------- Memory Manager -------------------+
|  Memory Pool with chunk size = 1000                    |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |
|  |  value         |                |                |  |
|  |  image::mgmt   |                |                |  |
|  |  image::data   |                |                |  |
|  |  text::mgmt    |                |                |  |
|  |  text::data    |                |                |  |
|  +----------------+----------------+----------------+  |
|                                                        |
|  Memory Pool with chunk size = 100                     |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | |
|  +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Layout With Dynamic Sized Types

With dynamic sized types we split the container data into two parts, the

> the actual data and a management part which contains a pointer to the data part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actual data and a management part which contains a pointer to the data part.
```

The data part lives then outside of the container and an allocator inside the
management part of the container allows the container to acquire

> memory for their data part. When we assume that `MyData::image` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory for its data part. When we assume that `MyData::image` and
```
